# CS4320_2.1
Systems Theory Exercise 2.1

A retailer selling your personal information to others for profit

My grid represents the ethical quandries and some of the areas they affect centered around the prompt listed above. The first quandry I had thought about was privacy because it is such a hot topic in computing in todays age. I said that the specific issue would effect social media, web browsing, national security, and targeted advertising. This situation effects social media because social media companies often are the ones selling your information, posts, followers, analytics, etc. This brings up the question about how much privacy you really have on social media, even though the platforms are public many people would agree that there is still a need for private information. Web browsing is in a similiar vein because third party cookies and many websites are also guilty of selling your information which has lead to things like VPN and ad/cookie blockers becoming widely used. The ethics of national security come into question when you consider any government official being present on social media, or web browsing. One would hope these people are smart enough about web browsing but it is still possible that information about pulbic officials can be sold to other countries or organizations comprimising national security. Finally, I checked targeted advertising because it is an obvious result of information being sold and other companies using it to entice you to buy stuff. The ethics of this topic is shaky for me personally, because while I would rather have ads that are more relevant to my life and actually helpful, it is concerning to know that every website knows your interests and hobbies.

Security and trust/honesty kind of go hand in hand and have many of the same checkmarks, but I still consider them different because I believe they are not always mutual. This situation of selling personal information obviously breaks brings into the question of security for many spheres. If personal information is being spread around so easily how can you gurantee that confidential information is also safe? Social media makes it on this list because of situations like Twitter and Facebook, Facebook being notorious for selling any and all of their user's information to the point where many tech companies are now refusing to cooperate or integrate with the popular app because of security concerns. Web browsing and national security or also brought up with this one for similiar reasons. Crypto and online markets are two other topics I thought about with security. Especially in the past few years with the explosion and decline with crypto security was a big concern. There are things in place like block chains, but in the age of companies selling your personal information security will alwasys be a risk, and now you have your own money on the line. The last ethical quandry I thought about was trust/honesty. I often think about how many people in today's age especially those that do not sorround themselves with computers , complain about how they do not trust things on the internet or the safey of certain apps or social media. Some of it can be summed up as lack of experience but there are many rational concerns. How do you trust companies like social media, or online marketplaces like Amazon when they are willing to throw their user's under the bus for profit? Twitter has also been in the news because of the recent findings that there were features and practices in place that were blatantly lied about by the past CEO and devs. Crypto has always been hard to trust because of the erratic nature of it, but it is harder to trust with the amount of Crypto and NFT scams that try to capitalize on the dying fad and general lack of knowledge on how these concepts actually work. Finally, I checked targeted advertising as part of the trust and honesty category because I think the practice itself is untrustworthy or spreads mistrust. When you see a targeted ad of something you recently searched or saw on social media it can create mistrust between the apps and websited you visit. In my personal life there have been times when I see a targeted ad and I will imediately try to find the perpretator that sold my information so I know which sites I can trust.
